So continuing on with our discussion about
tuples in Python, so we just talked about
this line here in line 15 and how that
concept is called unpacking the tuple.
It actually mentioned I'm gonna
leave the list item here on line 12,
just to show you how a tuple can be
much better than listing situation.
So again if we run the program,
making sure we've selected tuples or
whatever name you've called your path and
fall.
Click on run.
You can actually see how it's unpacked
the top, so in other words with that
one line of code on line 15 you've
extracted the contents out of the tuple
into three individual variables, title,
artist and year.
So you can see that that makes it
very convenient when dealing with
the individual items of tuple by signing
them to meaningful named variables.
I'm just cleaning up this a little bit so
I'm going to delete that.
So we can actually do something similar or
actually the same with the list.
So you can change this.
So we could come along here and
we could change this code on line ten and
we could do something like
teleca two dot pinned rock.
Like so.
I'm going to give it title, artist,
year, equals Metallica 2.
And if we actually run that,
we actually get an error.
And this is an example of why you wouldn't
want to use a list in this situation where
the code you're working on, or the data
you're working on, isn't to be changed.
So it's not immutable.
So a list, you can see, isn't immutable.
We're able to actually
append an item to that.
And, of course, when we went to run
the code on line 12, we actually failed
because it was too many values to unpack,
because we didn't assign enough variables.
To unpack the data out of the list.
So remember that you might
be creating code modules.
That will be used in
different parts of a program.
And possibly and even probably if
you start working professionally.
As a path-end developer
by other programmers.
And if you allow such things
to be done then frankly.
It's only a matter of time
before they will be done.
That's just the nature of programming.
Now because a tuple is immutable
in other words it can't be changed
In this case line ten couldn't be executed
cuz a tuple doesn't have an append method.
So, this makes your code much more robust
to make it a tuple in this scenario and
prevents errors that would actually
not appear until someone else was
using the program.
So for example if we try and
do something like imelda.append
note that there's no intelligent,
IntelliSense, nothing happened.
Try and do that and run it.
I think if I just comment
out that line for now.
The point is if we actually run this now,
we actually get an error, tuple object has
no attribute append, because of course we
can only use the .append with a list item.
Now the other thing to note is that
tuple can contain elements that
are themselves tuples.
So let's actually go ahead and
add a track list to the tuple
representing the Albert Moore Mayhem.
We're just gonna use the first
four songs to save some typing.
So we're gonna clear out the Metallica
code because we don't need that anymore.
I'm just going to get rid
of all that right now.
And let's actually change this mail order,
and
I'm just going to close the running data.
And after date,
the year that the album was released,
then I'm going to put a comma,
then put a bracket, and
I'm going to type in another bracket,
because I'm creating a tuple.
And we're going to create
the individual items.
So it's one, in the tracks,
"Pulling the rug" 2, "Psycho".
3, "Mayhem".
And 4, "Kentish Town Waltz.
I can just do that and
get rid of that last bracket there.
So it's another line here, print(imelda).
We're gonna do in this case,
we're gonna do title, artist, year, but
also tracks now,
the fourth variable, equals imelda.
So we're unpacking the top lagoon.
And of course we're gonna print title,
print artist,
print year, print tracks.
So if you run that.
You can see we've correctly
now got the information out.
We've got the three fields as before,
title, artist and year.
But notice how the fourth entry, tracks,
has been returned as
a tuple in its own right.
Now the important thing to
note here in this situation,
when adding these extra tuples,
was that it was important to actually
enclose the four individual songs.
The track number and
the actual song in parentheses.
Otherwise what would happen
would be the Python interpreter
would actually evaluate that as
a single tuple with eight elements.
In other words, track 1,
song 1, track 2, song 2.
So by putting an extra set
of parentheses around each,
we're actually making it clear that these
are individual tuples in their own right.
So just to show you what I actually
mean there I can actually change that.
So I could get rid of these extra
brackets, and close this down.
So I get rid of all these brackets.
Just leaving the last bracket in there.
If I actually run that.
You can see, now,
we've got single tuple with eight entries.
The four individual track numbers,
and the four songs.
And obviously, in that case, we've
actually lost a lot of the structure.
Because instead of the tracks
obviously having a track number.
With title we've just got eight values,
and there's no obvious relationship.
At least not obvious to the computer,
anyway.
So we just undo that, and do that again,
put the brackets back again.
So we've got individual tuples again.
And it's also possible to extract
the individual tracks as well.
So at the moment we got title,
artist, year, we've got tracks.
But let's change tracks to track1,
track2, track3, and track4.
And now we have to print those out
individually, so track1, 2, 3, 4.
So, we can actually run that.
And what I was going to do then,
I'll just close that down.
What I was gonna go is get rid
of this initial bracket, so
I'm actually just creating four
separate tuples effectively here.
If I actually run that,
that breaks down each individual track and
title into it's own tuple.
Now that will actually get an error, and
the error that you actually saw on the
screen before I changed it, if it hadn't
actually created four separate track
variables, as I've done there.
But also if I hadn't actually changed and
removed the extra brackets,
you sort of created a tuple
within a tuple, so to speak, or
four tuples within that master tuple.
So in this example, though, it's still
a good example cuz we've actually
retained the relationship
between track number and title.
But the downside with this method here,
with track one through four,
cuz we'd actually need to know in
advance how many tracks there are.
And obviously we'll need to
create a variable for each one.
Cuz obviously if we forgot,
and got rid of track4 and
we'll comment this line out and
we were to run it,
you actually get an error because
there's too many values to unpack.
So we'll need to look at
our data now ahead of time.
How many variables to actually
have on the assignment line,
and obviously to actually be able
to use those on the right line.
Of course,
we've now lost the ability to actually
process a single tuple with a for loop.
And we'll do that in a minute,
just in case it's not obvious.
So, let's actually look at the final
example without any parenthesis.
To create a single tuple
containing 11 elements.
So, I'm actually gonna copy and paste some
code here just to save a bit of time.
I'm going to copy that.
I'm going to close this window down.
I'm just gonna paste this in to
the builder variable definition.
So, you can see in this case now we've
literally got a single tuple containing
eleven elements.
So, we've obviously got the three that
we had initial title, artist, and year.
And then we've also got each track number.
And also, the actual song title for
the first four songs of
the track of the album as well.
I you try to print to run
this we'll get an error.
And too many ellies to unpack, expected 7.
And that's because we've actually put them
all individually into one master tuple.
And it's now a total of 11 elements,
two each for the first four tracks, for
the artist for the album.
And then, of course, it was title,
artist as well, and that made up the 11.
So if you're really trying to store
an album object, for instance, in Python,
the first structure we
did makes more sense and
more accurately reflects the real objects.
Cuz albums can have
different numbers of tracks,
you can just iterate over the contained
tracks tuple to print them all out.
So as promised, we're going to look
at the code to print the tracks
in more mayhem using
the original structure.
But I didn't say I wouldn't ask
you to have a go first though.
So what I've come up with is a simple
challenge and I'm gonna start that now.
So let me talk about the challenge.
So the challenge is going to be,
Okay, so this is a challenge.
So given the tuple that I've
got on line seven, below.
And that actually represents the amount
Imelda May track called Mayhem.
And that should actually say,
Imelda May album.
So, here, I'll start it here.
Given the tuple below that represents
the Imelda May album, Mayhem,
or at least the first four songs.
Right code to actually
print the album details.
Followed by listing of all
the tracks in the album.
Now, you want to indent the tracks by
a single tab stop when printing them.
And remember that you can actually pass
more than one item to the print function,
separating them with a comma.
So go away and see if you can
come up with a solution to that,
printing that out in the right format.
And when you're ready to come back and
check your code, restart the video and
I'll show you how to do it.
So pause the video now and
see what you can come up with.
Okay, so how did you figure it out?
So let me go through and
show you our sample solution.
First I'll start off by just
printing the current tuple just so
we can sort of see what it's like.
So the first thing we wanna
do is extract the fields.
So we're gonna extract four.
Title Artist, year, tracks = imelda.
And obviously we're using this tuple
that has got four tuples within it, and
by doing that, we can actually just use
that one assignment to actually get all of
the tuples in that one assignment.
And we can obviously print out the title,
print title.
You can print the artist and
obviously the year as well but
to actually go through each
song if you are using the for
loop you are in the right frame of mind so
you type for song in tracks.
Remembering that tracks
contains a list of tuples and
the for loop is gonna go through and
allocate the individual song or
the value from pulling it from
the tuple into the variable song.
And from there we can literally just
type print, adding the tap\t song.
So, we can actually run that.
And you can see that we are able
to actually print out the title,
artist and year.
And for each song we have actually
just printed out the tuple.
Now alternatively you might have actually
further expanded the individual song
tuples, and
you can do that quite easily as well.
So what we could have done is under
the for loop we can type track,
title = song.
So I'm packing the tuple into
the variables called Track and Title.
Then we can actually leave
the slash-T in there, but
we wanna start using replacement fields,
and we'll put something like track number,
and then title column,
another replacement field.
And of course down here
we've actually put .format,
which would be track, total.
So we can actually run that code,
and we'll individually print out the track
number and obviously the total as well.
So that's my solution to the challenge.
And just a couple more questions for
you to think about.
So once you've actually represented
your alburn collection as tuples,
we'll destroy all the tuples in the list,
or we'll just store them in another tuple.
I'll just say that again.
Once you've represented your
album collection as tuples,
we'll destroy all the tuples in the list,
or in another tuple.
But the answer to that one is that in
programming there's certainly incorrect
answers because they have
solutions that don't work.
But there's really one correct answer.
So, with that said,
you have multiple options, but
often there is one that is
better in a given situation.
So unless you are positive that
you will never buy another album.
You'd be better off using a list to store
the albums in, because of course, once
you've actually allocated something in a
tuple, you can't actually change it again.
So if you had a list,
you could actually pin new items to
the list as you acquired new albums.
Second question is,
although a tuple is immutable,
what would be the status of a tuple that
contained a mutable object such as a list.
So that question again is, although
a tuple is immutable, what would be
the status of a tuple that contained
immutable objects, such as a list.
So a tuple is immutable,
as we've established, so
its contents cannot be changed.
But, however,
if a tuple contained a list, for
example, as one of its elements, then the
contents of the list itself can change.
So to see this in action I'm gonna type
in a little bit of code just to show
you what I mean.
The best way to do that
is just to paste this in.
I'm gonna paste all this code in.
I'm gonna temporarily, I've shut down
the run window and I'm just going to
comment out this code so you'll still
have it available for download.
This is the answer to the second question,
or it explains a little bit better,
anyway.
Looking at this code you'll notice how
I've actually created a topple for
each of the individual tracks,
but they're now in a list.
With the square brackets
indicating it's in a list.
So the contents of that mutable
list tracks has actually changed.
So you can see now that we've
actually changed the immutable tuple
to store the songs as a list of tuples,
noting the square brackets I've
actually put around there now.
So this is now a list that still
contains individual tuples.
And what we can then do is, we can
actually apend, quite happily actually,
a pint another track to the list
using the lists append method.
You can see that their showing that on
line 26, and again you can see that in
operation on line 29 where we're
actually appending an additional track.
So the tuple still contains four elements,
title, artist, year, and tracks.
And that hasn't changed.
The contents of the immutable list track,
tracks I should say, has changed,
just to run this just to
confirm it's working.
There's no errors.
You can see we're able to
actually get that to run.
So that's an important clarification
there again, that a tuple is immutable.
So its contents can't be changed.
However, if a tuple contains a list,
as it did in this example that I've just
showed you that the contents of
the list itself can actually change and
you saw it actually working on the screen.
This concept where you can actually
change a list that's within a tuple
has implications later in the course when
we start looking at dictionaries and keys.
It's also useful in many applications.
For example if you ever
replace your vinyl collection
records with CDs you might've noticed
that the CDs come with bonus tracks and
now having tuple can cope with that.
The way that we've actually developed it.
So that's it.
That's the end of this video.
I'll see you in the next video.